I had a problem that every time I try to dissolve a polygon it does not dissolve into 
just one whole polygon but instead it dissolves only some parts and the rest remain
undissolved making it still a multi-part polygon. 

This happens because the polygon is too heavy and has many vertices. To lighten the 
polygon you must simplify it first. Simplify reduces the number of vertices in the polygon
Use the simplify tool in Arc Arctoolbox/Cartography tools/Generalization/Simplify Polygon.
After simplificatin then dissolve can be executed and it will work. 

However, there are times even if you simplify it still a line is present and the polygon is divided into two
but if you check the attribute table there is only one attribute and one row which says that 
the polygon is not a multipart feature but is just one. It just so happens that it got 
demarcated with a line or the boundary was not dissolved during the dissolve process. 
This happens when the polygon you have before you dissolved it has slivers in it. So the 
boundary is retained. So after simplifying the polygon you'll have to run the Integrate tool 
Data management tools/feature class/integrate before you try to dissolve. This way you can correct
the sliver and it will not cause a line that breaks the polygon after the dissolve process.

In Qgis this can also be done using the Simplify tool 
Vector/Geometry tools/Simplify

I did it in ArcGIS
In my case I simplified using a tolerance of 500 m. Since my map units are degrees and 
1 degree is equal to 111,139 m then that's 0.004 degrees. 

With the Integrate tool I used a tolerance of 300 m or 500 m also can be used. 

Then the dissolve tool was used and it worked. :)



This can also be done using Postgis with the script 

SELECT simplify(the_geom,500) as simpgeom 
    FROM neighborhoods
    
(I need to find out first what the 500 in the script means. It could be referring to tolerance also).


SOME POINTERS TO REMEMBER USING THE INTEGRATE TOOL 

Integrate is used to maintain the integrity of shared feature boundaries by making features coincident 
if they fall within the specified x,y tolerance. Features that fall within the specified x,y tolerance 
are considered identical or coincident.

Set the 'cluster_tolerance' variable as small as possible.

Be sure to backup your data prior to running the tool since it will modify you data.


SOURCE: 
https://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/237762/deleting-traces-after-dissolving-several-polygons-in-arcgis-desktop

https://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/25914/smoothing-generalizing-polygon-in-qgis
