I found this in some polygons that are present in the database. I noticed many of them have 
extents extending more than the GCS -180 and 180 degrees. This sometimes causes the polygon to get distorted 
in the website (where the the regenerated distribution is shown). This I think is the cause 
of the problem.  

To change the extent, to -180 and 180 West- East reproject the polygon to GCS WGS 84 
This works if your previous CRS is WGS 84. 



For cases where a shapefile is encountered and its extents are way beyond -180 degrees (i.e. -260 degrees): 

I encountered this in
a shapefile for Ecoscope. I converted a KMZ file into a shapefile in QGIS. It showed fine in QGIS and ARC but when entered in 
Dbeaver it just went crazy. It has error in its geom part which I couldn't determine. It is probably because of the KMZ to shapefile
conversion. It was not because it had a less than normal extent. I tried fixing the geom in QGIS first but the error did not went away.
What I did was simplify it in mapshaper and then fix geometry in QGIS and then it worked. There were no more errors when uploaded in 
Dbeaver. 

As for the extended extent of the shapefile, it seems to become normal (when I say normal I meant in GCS) when I process the shapefile with
another one which has the GCS extent. It would be much better that before clicking the ok button for processing, click environments 
and set the processing extent to the map that has the GCS extent (-180 to 180). This worked when I set the processing extent to the TM
world borders shapefile. 

But also, my shapefile is projected to GCS but the positioning is not GCS and the extents do not align with that of GCS. I tried projecting it
again to GCS but it did not work, the extent does not change.
To solve this first you inspect the shapefile with extended extent and try to figure out what projection that shapefile is 
showing (could be PDC, could be others etc.) and project it to that CRS first. For my case I noticed the positioning is in PDC mercator, so I projected it 
to PDC mercator and then afterwards I projected the reprojected map to GCS and this worked. It will help if before projection you set the 
environments, Processing extent to the TM world borders where there is -180 to 180 extent. 



